Established in 1991 under Chapter 1141 of the Laws of Hong Kong (The Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology Ordinance),[5] HKUST is one of the eight
statutory universities in Hong Kong.

In the late 1980s the Hong Kong Government anticipated a strong demand for
university graduates to fuel an economy increasingly based on services. Sir
Chung Sze Yuen and the then Governor of Hong Kong, Sir Edward Youde, conceived
the idea of another university in addition to the pre-existing two
universities (HKU and CUHK).

Planning for the "Third University", named The Hong Kong University of Science
and Technology later, began in 1986. Construction began at the Kohima Camp
site in Tai Po Tsai on the Clear Water Bay Peninsula. The site was earmarked
for the construction of a new British Army garrison, but plans for the
construction of the garrison were shelved after the Sino-British Joint
Declaration was signed in 1984.

Originally scheduled to finish in 1994, the death of Sir Edward in 1986 led to
increased effort and allowed UST to open its doors early â€“ in 1991. Several
leading scientists and researchers took up positions at the new university in
its early years, including physicist Leroy Chang who arrived in 1993 as Dean
of Science and went on to become Vice-President for Academic Affairs.[6]
Thomas E. Stelson was also a founding member of the administration.[7]

The project was criticised for surpassing the budget set forth by the Hong
Kong Government and the Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club. However, under the
fund-raising efforts of its President, Woo Chia-wei, the first students
enrolled in October 1991. By 1992, accommodation and athletic facilities were
expanded to support about 7,000 students.

Several more expansion projects such as the construction of the Hong Kong
Jockey Club Enterprise Centre have since been completed. The library extension
building, Lee Shau Kee Business Building (LSK), Lo Ka Chung Building South Bus
Station, Undergraduate Halls VIII and IX, Cheng Yu Tung Building (CYT) and the
Conference Lodge, are the latest additions to the campus.
